---
layout: post
title: "AI who goes to school and AI who hangs out"
date: 2017-08-03
categories: AI
---
## Next step of AI development

Artificial intelligence has become the holy grail of modern technology. Engineers are excited about it; investors are crazy about it. Indeed, the recent structures based on neural networks are simple yet shockingly effective. Since 2015, AI-based computer vision has granted robots sharper eyes than human. Microsoft [Xiaoice](http://www.msxiaoice.com/), an emotional chat-bot, has chatted with millions of people in China. And Google is trying to train an [AI that learns everything](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.05137.pdf). 

Despite these impressive applications, most development today are direct descendants of models proposed in 1990s, such as LeNet and LSTM. It is the rapid growth of computing power, both on CPUs, GPUs and other XPUs that enable AI to generate results you can touch. What's the next step of AI? Will we experience yet another AI-winter? I would like to discuss a direction on the horizon: community intelligence, and introduce some seminal contribution from our adaptive system laboratory at UCLA.

## AI who goes to school

Neural networks, as the name suggests, mock neuron connection in our own brains. Not surprisingly, they also resemble human beings in how skills build up. Tasks that are hard to children--reading, writing--are equally hard to AI's. Today's AI can identify objects better than human beings, but the state-of-the-art AI can only talk for a few minutes before getting noticed, and we are far from any meaningful excerpts of writing generated by AI. Similarly, consider how a child learns to see, to talk, and finally to read and write. The experience and understanding from children education could inspires us in AI research: for example, have we taught AI too much "at school"?

Take a look at the AI around you: from fancy self-driving Tesla to credit card fraud detection, they are all trained and stored on the humongous servers buzzing somewhere in the Bay Area. Whenever you pick up your phone or start your car, you are accessing the AI's far away, or at best downloading a copy of it onto your device. You also accept the terms and conditions that grant these AI's your personal information to improve their performance. Such AI is born to learn in the school of servers: they are fed in structured data like textbooks, and follow the programmer's teaching to generate expected results. Computer scientists also dubbed it "supervised learning" as if they are school teachers. 

The good side is apparent: the AI knows everything. The server stores each one of your faces and your favorite restaurants, so simply retriving the knowledge has been powerful enough to impress you. The servers also enjoy full technical support and backup plans, so that engineers find tweaking the model easy; and hackers find the server a nightmare to sneak in. 

But all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. As we hang out with our friends and bet on the winning team of the next Super Bowl, 


What's next? 